Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let's get acquainted. My name is Shulgina Elena Vladimirovna. I am a professor and
a teacher at the Moscow School of Business, responsible for such topics as management and
personnel. My business practice began in 1990 and since 1993 I have managed my own and
other people's businesses. And during these 14 years I have worked in large companies,
I am proud of many projects and the largest number of staff that I had to work with
was a large Russian company with 50,000 people with distribution throughout the Russian region.
Therefore, it seems to me that I know a lot about the staff, if not everything, well, or almost everything.
As any head of a Russian business, if you ask us about what problems we
face, or which of the resources is the most deficient for us, of course,
any of us will say that these are personnel. As usual, personnel decide everything, and today personnel
or human staff are really the main strategic resource of the company.
In recent years, serious migration processes, serious demographic changes have taken place in Russia,
which has led to significant deformations in the labor market. And we often have to look for
specialists in completely unexpected places, or we cannot find specialists even for money.
They say that the last century is a century of technology, and indeed, the emergence of the Internet and the
opportunity to work with huge information flows have led to the fact that companies cannot
actively compete now due to new technologies or new information.
And the most interesting for us today are the opportunities of a company or the key competencies of a company,
which allow it to respond more quickly to market requests, to more flexibly meet the
client's requirements. And this depends on the speed of decision-making and the quality of the staff
that does business for you, and which must achieve the business results that you set for them.
Therefore, today we will talk about the role of the head of the staff management department,
and in particular, on the topic of training and development of staff.
The topic of human resources has recently gained strategic importance, but we know that as managers,
we focus on human resources as on the resource that allows us to achieve business results.
This is on the one hand. On the other hand, every person is an individual.
Every person wants to develop, wants to implement some of their competencies, strategies,
to receive new tasks, to improve their own levels. And any manager has to work with people
and use both approaches. On the one hand, we must stimulate people to achieve business goals,
to achieve our strategic goals. On the other hand, we must take into account their personal interests
and self-realization. Therefore, when we manage staff, when we work with people and try to make them
more effective, we also work on their personal development. Of course, there are such services
as HR, but the main task of the staff service is to select the necessary specialists for you,
to keep them, to create the necessary working conditions for them. But the topic of staff development,
in my opinion, is the first thing that the head of the department should be concerned about.
What new approaches exist in the practice of staff management today? We know the old approach,
when the staff was perceived as staff, there were staff services, today staff services are already
staff management services. Previously, expenses for staff were considered expenses,
today expenses for staff are already investments. And if earlier shareholders or owners were not very
interested in what was happening in staff services, then today both shareholders,
and top managers are very actively involved in staff management. As a result of the survey,
you can see now on the diagram that among the tasks that are before the staff service,
one of the first tasks is the task of organizing training. We will talk about this. The training cycle
includes 10 stages, they are now in front of you on the slide, and we will consider only
5 main ones. These are items such as determining the needs in training, setting the goals of training,
determining the subject content of the training courses themselves, choosing training participants and
evaluating the training program. Before we talk about this, I would like to remind you that
in the human resources management system there are such concepts as motivation and stimulation.
What is the difference between motivation and stimulation? We know that motivation is what drives a person to work,
this is why he is interested in performing certain tasks, and stimulation is those carrots or
those stimuli that we provide him with in order for him to perform the work more effectively.
In previous courses, you have already considered the main theories of motivation. We have
substantive and procedural theories of motivation, you already know about this. And in the substantive theories of motivation,
you have considered such theories as Maslow's theory, Herzberg's theory, for example. And now I propose
you to complete one of the tasks from our work in a notebook in order to remember these theories.
Try to determine what type of motivation is education related to, according to one or another theory.
That is, what type of motivation we can refer to, or what level of motivation we can refer to such a type of education.
How to determine the level of motivation?
The next topic is the analysis of the needs in training staff.
How can we determine how many people are needed and how we should train them?
The approach is very simple. We determine what the situation is today, we model the situation that should be,
and we determine what the difference is between them. That is, what is the difference between the target or planned level of knowledge and skills of employees
and the basic level of knowledge and skills that exist now.
The diagnosis of the needs in training includes four main stages.
We must answer such important questions as why we train, who we train, what and how.
Now we will briefly consider each of these questions.
So, why do we train staff? What are the goals of training?
Please look at the slide, I want to briefly comment on it.
The goals of training must certainly coincide or be oriented towards the implementation of strategic tasks or achieving business results.
It is good if the company has strategic goals formulated.
Unfortunately, very often in Russian practice strategic goals are not clearly defined.
Therefore, it is important to decide on the business goals of the organization for a period of one year or three years
and to form training goals in accordance with these strategic goals.
For example, very often companies set tasks such as increasing the share in the market,
or the development of the sales geography, or increasing financial profitability,
that is, increasing profits, increasing turnover, or increasing profitability.
Under these strategic guidelines, a number of events are often planned.
Therefore, the first thing to determine is what are the most priority events, goals and tasks are planned for the near future
in order to determine the goals of training in connection with them.
The next question is who do we train?
There is a small table in front of you on the slide that illustrates the main groups of our specialists.
These may be ordinary performers, professional industry specialists, managers and top managers.
And, of course, the goals and tasks of training for each of the groups may be different,
and you can evaluate this by looking at the comments presented in this table.
The most important question is what to train for.
The needs of certain skills or skills can also be presented in the table that is now on the slide.
And we can divide the main types of training into three groups.
The first is training that increases the qualification without any documents.
It is considered to be training in the field of informal technologies.
The second type of training is training that requires the confirmation of a qualification in the form of a certificate or a license for special certificates.
These are more formalized technologies that are associated with a specific industry or functional specificity.
The third type of training is training that is associated with the corporate requirements of the company itself,
which helps to adapt to specialists more quickly and get used to the company and its rules.
And the last question is how to train.
The same groups of staff are shown on the slide as performers, specialists, managers and top managers.
And we can understand that there is a short-term and long-term training,
but there are also types of training that are divided into the main groups.
These are training at work, training outside the workplace, but within the company,
and training outside the company, which we will talk about later.
So, once again, how should we orient training?
How to determine the goals of training?
Because this is the most important thing, because the goals of training should be oriented towards strategic business goals of the company.
So, there are two main approaches that we can recommend for analyzing the needs of training.
The first approach is the need for training that is associated with the strategic goals of the company.
And the second approach is when we build training in accordance with the main requirements of the competence of the employees,
that is, in accordance with the portraits of competence.
Here are two approaches.
The first option is to determine the goals of management.
These can be goals described in the format of Management by Object, that is, the management system by goals.
And when we have certain criteria for their achievement, we can check the intermediate results
and assess the results of the work of the employee over the course of a year, and, accordingly, take certain actions to achieve the results.
And, in particular, one of the actions is to plan his training and development, which will help him to achieve these goals more effectively.
The second block is the determination of the competence of the employee in accordance with the description of the position.
We also assess his knowledge and behavior, and, based on the results of the assessment of competence,
we also take some adjustment actions, including planning training and development.
Let's take a closer look at both approaches.
The first approach is to determine the needs of training of the employees in accordance with the strategic goals of the company.
Here I would like to touch on the topic of the life cycle of the organization.
You will discuss this topic in the courses a little later.
But the main idea is that any organization as a body is born, develops and can die.
So, in order for the company not to die, it still experiences a number of so-called age crises,
and it is assumed that at every stage of entering the market or the development of the organization, it pursues certain goals.
For example, when the company creates, its main task is simply to enter the market,
then, when it has won its share in the market, its task is to develop its business in terms of product, customer, and territory.
Then it begins to expand, and the company's goals change.
Of course, the goals of training the staff will depend on the organization's life cycle.
Let's take a closer look at both approaches.
So, how to determine the needs of training in accordance with the goals of the company's development?
The main idea is that any organization as a body is born, develops and can die.
So, in order for the company not to die, it still experiences a number of so-called age crises,
and it is assumed that at every stage of entering the market or the development of the organization, it pursues certain goals.
Of course, when we talk about the life cycle of the organization, we mean the life cycle of the company.
Of course, when we enter the market, our main goal is to get a share in the market, to win certain positions.
Then we want to expand, to win either territory or to develop a product.
We begin to develop product or customer portfolios, and so on.
In accordance with this, at every stage of the organization's development, the organization pursues several different goals.
At every stage, we need to determine and bring the training goals into accordance.
Let's look at the training goals of a company that implements a strategy of concentrated growth.
A strategy of concentrated growth is usually characterized by the development of a business in several directions.
The first direction is the product, the second direction is the client,
the third direction is the territory, which is very often associated with geographic distribution.
Usually, a company is interested in some financial result.
Let's consider this as an example of an elementary financial result, such as an increase in profits.
If we look at the goal of a company that is associated with an increase in the share in the market,
namely, the presence in the client sector and the development of the product line,
we can look at it from the point of view of the ratio of the product ratio.
We have products. We have old and new products that we plan to introduce into the market.
We have old and new clients, which we already have and which we are working with, and new ones that we want to attract.
So, we are now selling the old product to the old clients.
What do we want to do next?
Next, we want to create a new product and offer it to the clients.
Of course, we offer a new product to the old clients first, and then we will only offer it to the new clients.
Or, if we are focusing on the development of client bases, then we offer the old products to the new clients.
And only at the next stage do we offer new products to new clients.
According to this table, it is clear that you will focus on the development of product-client relations.
It is clear that there is practically no need to teach here, because old products are already sold to old clients.
First of all, we will focus on training our employees on new products.
How is this training done?
As a rule, early in the morning, or at 8 a.m. or at 9 a.m., all employees are invited.
Our brand managers or marketers tell us that we have a new product,
or some new product that needs to be studied in terms of new characteristics or competitive features.
In this logic, one of the first tasks is to increase sales by introducing new products.
The goal of increasing the share on the market is transformed into tasks such as increasing sales by introducing new products and new client networks.
Accordingly, you will teach new products and a system of searching for new clients.
Further, the development of the share on the market can also take place due to the territory.
There are many territories in the Russian Federation, 89 regions.
It is clear that all regions will not be covered by their sales.
Accordingly, you need to choose priority regions.
To do this, you need to understand which region to go to first, where to invest money,
in the development of which region will be the first investments, where to open branches or where to hire trade representatives.
Therefore, in addition to training our managers on new products and new clients,
we may also have managers in the development of territories or trade representatives on the territory, who also need to be trained.
Such a strategic goal as increasing the share on the market can be implemented in the following way.
Please look at the slide.
The goal of the company is to increase the share on the market.
Accordingly, the goals of the training are to increase sales and to develop the regional retail network.
What groups of employees should we train?
This is a sales and marketing department.
If you have a branch company, then this department is trained both in the managing company and in the regions.
Sometimes, even your representatives of clients or partners, your dealers or distributors, are included in such training.
What training topics should be implemented?
The first is training on new products.
The second is training on the methods of customer base development.
The third is training on the methods of searching and attracting new clients.
The fourth is training on the technologies of regional retail networks.
The fifth is training on the compliance regulations of all our documents, accounting, software, and possible credit policy.
And the training forms, which are usually used in these types.
Of course, training on the products is carried out through internal training.
Such training as training on the technologies of compliance, as well as the documentation requirements, is internal training.
Everything else, as a rule, is trained with the help of external providers or coaches or consultants.
This is training on the methods of customer base development, attracting new clients, or creating home regional networks.
If we look at the next task, the task of increasing profits.
Let's recall the profit formula.
The profit formula is very simple.
Income minus expense.
How is income formed in a company?
This is the price of a product multiplied by the volume of the product.
Well, we usually refer to expenses as all the costs that are formed in the process of implementing business tasks.
In order to increase our profits, what should we do?
The formula is very simple.
Either we should increase the price, which is not always possible, but we should increase the volume of sales or reduce the costs.
As a rule, managers form a task for themselves in all three areas.
The first task is to optimize price formation.
The second task is to increase sales volumes.
And the third task is to work with costs.
To draw up the goals and training for the main strategic goal of increasing profits,
which we will teach, what and how,
I suggest you try to write it down in our next task in the workbook,
focusing on the model that I have already given you.
So, the second approach to increase sales volume.
The second approach to determine the needs in training is related to the portrait of competence.
The topic of competence appeared in the US in 1970.
The American Association of Managers developed a portrait of competence,
which described the basic professional skills and skills that an employee should have.
At the same time, in the UK, about the same time,
the US government began to develop a portrait of competence,
which was focused on functionality,
that is, it described the functional responsibilities of employees.
As a result, a general model of approach to competence was created,
which is a description of both the functional features of the work of employees
or requirements for employees, as well as professional skills and skills.
From a single concept of what competence is today,
no, they are different, the formulations are different,
let's agree that under competence we will understand those professional skills
that allow an employee to be the most successful in his or her functional activities.
If you look at the slide, we can briefly say that competence is a combination of skills,
knowledge and requirements for an employee.
But it is known that people are selected for knowledge, and fired for behavior.
Why do we need competence?
Competence allows us to assess our employees at the entrance to the company,
to understand what knowledge and skills are missing,
and to develop certain training programs.
To form a list of programs or a portfolio of programs for this employee
and assess the effectiveness, that is, whether these training programs gave the result we expect.
In addition, competence allows us to set a certain coordinate system
and be the basis for selecting, assessing and developing employees.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide again.
What do we measure and develop?
We have functional and professional competencies,
corporate competencies that relate to a specific company,
and management competencies.
Please remember that two important words in the field of competence
are the words that are used in the company,
and the words that are used in the field of competence are the words that we measure and develop.
That is, any competence should be described in such a way
that it is clear how it can be measured,
and secondly, so that it is clear how it can be developed.
When we describe functional or professional competencies,
it is easier to describe the functions that this employee should perform.
When we describe corporate competencies, it is also not very difficult,
because corporate competencies are usually industry competencies
or competencies related to the features of the company's work.
But those competencies that are usually related to management,
communication, business and personality are those competencies
that are difficult to measure and develop,
but we need to develop these competencies in our employees as well.
The next slide shows an example of describing competencies at several levels.
Any competence is usually distinguished by five levels.
These are the level of incompetence, the level of limited competence,
the level of basic competence, the level of high competence and the level of skill.
Your textbooks provide several examples of describing competencies.
How can we assess competencies?
The slide shows a graph.
The blue one is a profile of the positions that meet the requirements of competence,
and the yellow one is a profile of competencies that our specialist has based on the assessment.
We see that some competencies are not quite up to the ideal profile,
some are equal, and some are beyond the requirements.
What should we do in this case?
When our competencies are not enough,
and this should be the basis for the development of training programs,
try to answer the question,
what should we do if our competencies are excessive,
if our specialist has a little more than his position?
Of course, we can promote him in the service,
promote him in the position, if there is such an opportunity.
Sometimes we can offer him to become a mentor or a teacher
who can help us to form educational programs.
We can load him more, so that we know that a person who knows more or knows more
can do more work.
So, don't touch him if he doesn't care.
You know that he has a certain set of competencies that exceeds this position.
You can use it now or a little later, but you don't have to focus on it.
What methods are there to determine the requirements in training,
usually in Russian companies?
Of course, the first one is a person who came to us, we evaluated him, tested him,
we know that he has a certain lack of knowledge or skills
with the initial acceptance, initial testing.
The next assessment of competence can be carried out by analyzing the results of work
during the training period or when he is appointed.
We can see how he acts during this time and understand
how he will develop.
Also, the basis for educational programs can be the results of the test of employees
if you conduct a test.
I can also offer you a form of evaluating the employees and their managers.
Yes, of course, this is a subjective assessment,
but on the other hand, it is these managers who interact with these people
or we work with all the employees we have to.
Therefore, we see each other every day and we understand that we lack certain skills.
Therefore, the evaluation or interview of both the specialists and their managers
is also one of the ways to identify the requirements in training.
The second way is to analyze some special information.
Perhaps a new technology has appeared in your industry,
perhaps there are some changes in the labor market,
and then it is possible that you will need to develop programs,
training related to the specificity of your industry or your market.
The third way is to analyze the management of the company.
This is a process of management, which is implemented by the owners or top managers.
There was such a story in one of my management practices
when the owner of the company decided to leave the general director,
change the entire composition of the top managers and leave the entire line staff.
What happens? The top managers are fired, a new team comes,
these are 8 people from a completely different structure,
but this is the team that comes, they worked before, they come with their requirements,
come with their regulations, work with management habits,
and begin to introduce these requirements, regulations and habits into the standards of management of this company.
You understand perfectly well that there is a conflict with the general director and with the line staff,
and it is primarily associated with the management skills and competencies that this new team imposes on them.
So, once again, please remember the important thing about competence.
Two main words are measured and developed.
Therefore, when you describe competence or make a portrait of competence,
please do not use such words as a good employee,
a decent person, or ability to develop,
or ability to organize, or creativity.
It is very difficult to measure such competencies, and, accordingly, it is not clear through which programs to develop.
Once again, please do not use in the descriptions of competence those competencies that cannot be formulated,
or those that require additional formulations or additional explanations.
The assessment of competencies can be carried out by assessing the expected competencies
and the existing competencies, and then by assessing the basic competencies.
Here is a diagram of the assessment of competencies.
The assessment of competencies is carried out in connection with the assessment of the basic competencies,
the five levels of the ABCDE,
and the competence profile highlighted in blue,
which is desirable for this position,
and the competence profile highlighted in yellow,
which is identified by the employee.
The assessment of competencies is not enough,
and this can be the basis for the formation of training and development programs.
Some competencies coincide with the requirements,
and you see that there are a number of competencies that exceed the requirements for a position.
What to do in this case if the competencies exceed the requirements for a position?
There are also management competencies,
but this is not always possible, and it is not always possible to develop a person's career.
In this case, we can form a horizontal career for him,
when he can gain additional key professional competencies.
We can make him a mentor in those competencies in which he is strong.
As a manager, you can know that you have a person with such wonderful competencies
and use it in the future.
How can we identify the needs for training?
In addition to the main tools and assessments that we can use
when accepting for work, when passing the probationary period
or when adapting to the results of the attestation,
in addition to official assessment procedures or semi-official assessment procedures,
we can use some unofficial procedures.
These are procedures such as interviewing or appointing employees or their managers.
Both the employee and the manager can assess the competencies of their employees.
Of course, these are controversial things, subjective assessments,
but on the other hand, these employees and managers interact with each other
and are able to assess what skills and competencies they lack.
Another way to identify the needs for training is to analyze special information,
either external information or special information.
This information can be related to the introduction of new technologies or development of new technologies.
One example is the 1S program.
When it was introduced, not all companies sought to train their employees.
Today, almost all specialists in finance or accounting
undergo training similar to the 1S program.
Another way to identify the needs for training is to analyze
what kind of personnel changes may occur in the company
or what special actions of the management will be taken.
I would like to give one example from the practice of business from life.
The owner, analyzing the actions of the group or the team of top managers,
comes to the conclusion that this team is not effective and decides to replace the team completely.
At the same time, the general director, whom he trusts very much, remains,
the team of top managers changes, and all the line staff remains.
The team of new top managers comes from another company.
They are prepared, they are already organized, the teams come, they have already worked together
and they are ready to start a new business.
The new team begins to implement or broadcast these techniques of management
or these regulations and habits, which, accordingly, causes a huge conflict.
The conflict is both between the team of top managers and the general director,
and the conflict with the line staff.
We have a task to train the staff according to the requirements of the new team of top managers.
You understand that in this case the training program is quite wide,
on the other hand, it is very specific, because it should meet not only the requirements of the business
or the requirements for the purpose of the business or the assessment of competence,
but also the tasks, techniques or standards that this new team of top managers sets.
And, of course, another way to identify the requirements for training
is to listen to the analysis of the results of the organization's activities for a certain period.
That is, if you planned or planned certain results,
and the fact showed that we did not achieve them,
then, of course, you need to understand why, due to the lack of any professional training,
this occurs.
That's all about competence.
You can read more about it in our textbook and in other sections of the course.
In this section, I suggest you to complete one of the small tasks
that are proposed in your workbook.
The next section we will discuss is the training of the staff.
There are several basic forms of training that we will discuss today.
I have already briefly touched on such forms as training at work,
training outside of work,
and it is divided into training outside of work, training at home,
training at work, training outside of work,
and it is divided into training outside of work within the company,
that is, a person leaves the workplace but remains within the company,
or it is training outside of the company.
There is also such a topic as training throughout life,
which is a corporate university.
We have such terms as training, development, education, learning,
and specialists very often use the term they like best.
What is the interaction or development of these terms?
Training, in our understanding, is a training event
that forms certain tactical skills of our specialists.
Development can include training programs
that are focused on strategic development.
The term education is even wider than training and development
and can include other forms, such as academic education.
The result of all these actions, training, development, and education,
or the meaning of all these actions, is learning.
Learning is a behavioral change or behavioral reaction of our professionals or specialists,
and therefore the term learning is wider.
We will use all these terms, but you should understand
that learning is a way to create certain skills and knowledge
that are applied in the practical work of our specialists.
There are two most famous models in the theory of learning.
This is the Alan Manford model, which divides learning into three types.
This is informal learning, integrated learning, and formal learning.
Informal learning is the random processes that our employee is involved in.
Integrated learning is the work process that promotes learning.
Formal learning is planned learning.
It is common knowledge that we learn best from our own experience and practice.
Using this idea, one of the founders of the theory of learning, David Kolb,
created a cycle of learning stages.
It was called the David Kolb cycle, which means learning based on personal experience.
You can see in the diagram that these cycles are interconnected.
We get personal experience, then we reflect it on our actions,
we analyze it, and we experiment with it.
Then we get our personal experience again.
Very often, the David Kolb cycle is used in learning methods.
For example, in training or seminar classes,
we often use the following training exercises.
You have some personal experience.
You have to reflect on the skills or stereotypes of your management methods.
After we analyze how you act,
we analyze your actions and offer you new approaches
or solutions to these or those tasks.
In order to try or gain new experience in using new methods,
we offer cases, role-playing games, and you participate in them.
This is an experiment.
If it goes well, you understand that there are other ways, and they are also effective.
You can use the results of this experiment in your personal experience.
Then, Alan Mumford suggested that each employee prefers a particular type of training.
The types of employees can be divided according to the elements of the Kolb cycle.
In short, we wrote about each type of employee on the slide.
Types of employees in accordance with the main components of the Kolb cycle.
An active employee who prefers to act.
A reflector who likes to analyze his own experience.
A theorist who likes to discuss theoretical approaches.
A pragmatist who plans, studies, and checks theories.
Of course, for most employees, the characteristics of these types and the development and training of the staff should be taken into account.
Nevertheless, Mumford insists that some type of employee is present in a more obvious form.
There are different types of employees and different training technologies.
Today, the list of possible training technologies is so wide that we can choose almost any.
Also, the types of training are presented in your workbook and on the slide.
These are both individual and group training.
All of them are listed in your workbook and described in detail,
which technology is used for this or that type of training.
If we develop the idea that we have different types of managers
who are more familiar with a particular training format,
and there are different training forms,
it is clear that we can combine and assume that each type of manager or training type can correspond to a training form.
This is a summary table, which is also presented in your workbook.
You can see which training type is more suitable for each type of manager.
Despite the wealth of Western experience and the wealth of choices,
only a few basic types of training are used in Russian companies.
However, we have presented you the entire range of training types used by Russian companies.
You can also find them in your workbook.
I would like to comment on only two of them.
I think they may raise questions.
The first type of training is training of other employees.
How do we apply it?
It would be great if a group of employees went to a training course
and made a short presentation about the results of the training.
They could share their knowledge with their colleagues.
It is often inappropriate to share knowledge among Russian management companies.
It is also inappropriate to make a request for knowledge.
If a manager goes to a training course,
he may not even suspect that he will receive knowledge from his colleague in the next room.
In order to avoid this, training of other employees can be implemented
through the presentation of knowledge or skills that managers have.
It can be done through systematic seminars or courses.
The Russian management company was a popular topic at the time.
In my practice, the management company had a similar story.
A young Russian man came to Russia and studied in England.
He received a range of knowledge that was not used in Russian companies at the time.
Despite the fact that the young man was quite communicative and professional,
he did not have the opportunity to fully integrate into the Russian management environment.
We decided to ask our colleague to prepare a topic
on project management and to tell it to other managers.
He was very enthusiastic about this task
and prepared an interesting presentation on project management.
You know, in our companies, if someone speaks,
all other employees want to discredit him.
Naturally, our Russian managers began to ask him provocative questions.
One of the provocative questions was,
what project did you come up with and implement?
His story was really funny.
It turned out that he came from America to Russia on a motorcycle.
He had a great motorcycle and he came up with a project to come from America to Russia on a motorcycle.
When he began to tell about this project, how he was preparing,
where he would stop, how much gasoline he needed and what route to take,
how the police in Italy and in other countries were working,
it involuntarily served as a barrier to the distance that arose.
This is one of the examples.
Another example or practice that I would like to recommend is a practice of division,
when top managers or owners, together with top managers,
go to strategic seminars or strategic sessions,
which we hold.
It turns out that it is impossible to take everyone,
because the number of participants is limited,
and the strategy of the company is usually more interested in the composition of employees.
We recommend holding a mini-presentation of strategic session participants
for all other employees in a week to tell what was there,
what was the atmosphere, share some impressions, emotions,
maybe games and photos.
This allows you to form a wider information field for those knowledge
and to make a few comments on such a practice as the practice of other employees.
You will see there another type of training,
which usually raises more questions in our seminars,
what kind of training is this, as reading.
Recently, there has been such a direction, it is called directed reading.
In addition to reading, there are some new technologies.
There is even such a thing as a library day.
A person goes to a library or sits on the Internet and works on a special topic,
the results of which are necessarily provided to their manager or to the person in front of whom he is reporting.
This does not mean that he went to dig potatoes,
but it is used in companies sometimes through the following methods.
You can entrust any of your specialists,
for example, a specialist in personnel, to prepare a kind of digest of the latest articles
or some materials published, which are responding
or correspond to a particular topic of management activity.
You can also make a selection for the purpose of the system with balanced indicators,
or new approaches to the management of enterprises or something from the management field.
You can make such a selection or recommend a separate article to your employees,
send a message and be sure to ask for feedback or their impressions of what they have read.
This is also one of the methods of directed reading.
Directed reading is a list of books recommended for reading,
and a book or a textbook is recommended for reading for a month.
A round table or a reading conference is created on the topic of this book,
where participants share their opinions about what they have read.
This is a fairly simple, inexpensive and operational type of training
that we can use.
As for Russian training methods or training types in Russian companies,
in order to understand which methods we do not use,
I suggest you do the following exercise in a workbook.
This is to distribute the types of training methods,
which are usually used by Russian companies,
to the working class and non-working class.
I hope this will help you identify areas or fields that you can use,
or the types of training that you can use in your companies.
The topic of training throughout life.
At first it seems that a person starts learning from kindergarten.
First we learn to tie laces, then we learn to write in a notebook,
then we study physics and mathematics, then we go to the institute,
then we improve our qualifications and we learn without end.
The concept of the European Union was developed in the 1990s.
The idea of uniting Europe arose.
The absence of borders and the formation of a single European currency
led to people moving from country to country.
There were no restrictions.
Therefore, labor resources began to be concentrated in certain countries.
Programmers and lawyers began to move from country to country
in search of the most profitable ways to improve their competencies.
Europe, which is concerned with the same problem as Russia,
that there is a problem with labor resources,
and that people are a strategic resource,
held a conference in Lisbon in 2000.
It developed a concept of training throughout life.
Within this concept,
which is quite large,
it is possible to understand what basic competencies were included
in this concept from the point of view of European skills.
If you want to work in Europe, you must have the following skills.
They are presented to you on the slide.
These are communication in the native language, foreign languages,
social and civic competencies, innovation and entrepreneurship,
and your abilities in the cultural sphere.
These are the ten main competencies described in detail in the document.
The sample is also in the working notebooks.
Training throughout life is a new concept.
I believe that the next decade should be a decade of implementation of this concept.
I have already said that the deformation of labor markets
led to the fact that many competencies,
which used to be more of a state structure,
in particular, educational competencies or education systems,
have now become competencies of the enterprise itself,
as well as the formation of corporate ideology.
Many enterprises are forced to engage in system training on their own.
This is not only the case in Russia.
The system of internal corporate training has existed for a long time.
The leading model is the model of an independent training organization.
But the model of competences and the system model is usually used by Russian companies,
while the leading model and the model of an independent training organization are usually used in the West.
What forms of implementation in our companies usually exist in the system of corporate training?
Such words as a corporate university,
a corporate training center, a self-learning organization,
have recently appeared in our terminology, and some concepts are confused.
What is a corporate training center or a corporate university?
Therefore, I would like to talk first about a certain corporate training system.
What is a corporate training system?
In order to create a corporate training system,
there must be some prerequisites.
Such prerequisites as restructuring of the company,
possible changes in the business or new strategic directions,
possible changes in the approach to business,
and new requirements for managers and managers in terms of business changes,
can also create prerequisites for forming a corporate training system.
What other reasons can cause a corporate training system to emerge?
The first is territorial separation.
When you have an office in Moscow and a bunch of branches in the regions,
you must have a task in front of you to manage the regions,
to create formats or standards for proper service to the clients,
to maintain the quality of goods and services,
and to improve the quality of client service.
The need to combine corporate knowledge between the main office and branches
is one of the reasons for the formation of a corporate training system.
The second reason is the development of the company's top management,
the creation of a unity of knowledge in the corporation,
the enhancement of the brand can occur through the corporate training system,
and, of course, the improvement of the tool for motivating the team.
In the slide you can see that our corporate training system consists of three elements.
These are personal motivation, personal motivation,
professional knowledge and skills, and strategic goals and tasks of the organization itself.
The next slide illustrates how we can approach the formation of a corporate training system.
The first element is the development of the company's top management,
the second element is the development of the company's top management,
and the third element is the development of the company's top management.
We have two areas of competence, professional and technical competence and communication competence.
The following graph shows that when an employee joins our organization,
he must understand his functionality and the basic corporate communication,
that is, a school of adaptation is selected.
We must develop an adaptation program.
If we develop an employee by professional competence and improve his professional qualification,
such a school and programs associated with professional development arise.
If we develop communication competence, then schools and programs associated with business relations will appear.
We know that our leadership theory and management theory tell us that
if our manager, specialist, is focused on both working with people and getting results,
then he is one of the key or leading leaders.
Then we create a school of leaders or programs that help us develop leadership skills.
Often in a company you can use specialists who already exist,
it is not necessary to use only coaches from external training companies or consultants.
You can create a school of corporate coaches from the employees you have.
So, we have five main schools that allow us to develop certain competencies,
or to determine priorities in the development of competencies.
Again, it is a school of adaptation, a school of professionals, a school of leadership,
a school of business relations, a school of corporate coaches.
Returning to the topic of corporate universities, training centers, separate training courses,
how are they interconnected?
There are different forms of training in the general system of corporate education.
Separate seminars and trainings usually arise when you are just starting to form a system of education.
A system of education.
What is the difference?
We conducted a survey among employees and managers of various companies.
What is the difference between a corporate training center and a corporate university?
Our interviewees had a hard time answering.
There were some comments about the presence of their own programs,
or the presence of their own coaches,
or the presence of their own programs,
but there was no clear understanding of the difference between a corporate training center and a corporate university.
So, what is the difference between a corporate training center and a corporate university?
A corporate training center is usually a structural unit of a company.
The employees of the company can be accredited within the framework of this training center,
have their own teachers and coaches.
Training is aimed only at employees of the company,
and educational licenses are not required.
The corporate university is usually more extensive.
It is a training center for its employees,
and it is more extensive.
The corporate university should support the main groups of the following processes.
The first is the exchange of knowledge and experience within the organization.
The second is the exchange of knowledge and experience between organizations and partners,
and the third is the creation or unification of special knowledge,
taking into account the professional or industry specifics.
The third is the creation of a business model for the purpose of the university,
as well as the process of achieving the results.
As a rule, one of the goals is to increase customer satisfaction.
In order to respond to the client's requests more flexibly
or to respond to market demands more quickly,
the third is to increase the efficiency of the company in general,
reduce costs, retain talented employees and increase turnover.
These are the five main goals that are usually set before a corporate university.
How to create a corporate university, how to evaluate its effectiveness more effectively,
and how to make it more effective?
You can watch the video on how to create a corporate university,
how to evaluate its effectiveness in more detail,
and answer the questions related to the corporate university in your workbook.
The next slide shows the relationship between different forms of education
in the general corporate education system.
As a rule, we start training employees through separate seminars and trainings.
Then, the task of creating a training center is often raised.
After the company has established its own training center,
we create a corporate university.
There was a survey conducted between employees of large enterprises.
The employees could not give a clear answer to the question
of what is the difference between a corporate training center and a corporate university.
However, there were some differences.
The main difference is that a corporate training center is a little smaller.
It is usually part of the organizational structure,
is a structural unit of the company,
sometimes has certified programs or is accredited by the company,
attracts both its own and external coaches,
is aimed at training only employees of the company,
and does not require an educational license.
The corporate university differs from a corporate training center
in that it has more functional tasks.
We will see the difference in the next slides.
I would like to tell you about the history of the corporate university.
In fact, the corporate university is considered to be the offspring of Mickey Mouse.
At one time, the company created a program called You Create Happiness.
It was the first hour program aimed at training employees.
The idea of the corporate university was picked up by McDonald's,
which created the so-called University of Hamburg.
It was more of a professional school than a business school or a school of some other education.
Nevertheless, it was called a university.
If we talk about corporate universities in the modern sense,
what processes should be implemented or what tasks should be solved by a corporate university?
Look at the following slide.
These are the processes that a corporate university should support.
These are the exchange of knowledge and experience within the organization,
as well as the exchange of knowledge and experience between organizations and partners.
This can be our suppliers and our clients.
What is the individual or group plan of development of employees?
There is another concept in the topic of development of employees,
which is the individual or group plan of development of employees.
What is it?
When you evaluate an employee at the entrance,
you can see the individual or group plan of development of employees.
Based on what data can it be obtained and how is it formed?
What data can be used?
Let's look at the following slide.
These are the results of the evaluation of this employee,
the evaluation of the competence and the development menu.
What is the development menu?
The development menu describes five areas of development.
These are development at work, search for feedback on your actions,
training, seminars and project special tasks.
Often, employees are involved in the development of their individual plans.
This motivates them to develop.
This does not resist the implementation of such a plan.
We said that competencies can be functional, professional and corporate.
We also said that the most difficult competencies to develop
are those related to business, communication and leadership qualities.
The most difficult competencies to develop are such as team spirit, openness or flexibility,
motivation to achieve or focus on the result,
ability to think creatively or have a creative approach,
responsibility for the assigned tasks and loyalty to the company.
Any program you try to implement to develop these competencies
does not always bring the expected result.
The ideal scenario is 2 to 3 programs.
Try to make an individual development plan for yourself or your employee
based on the following logic.
The goal of the project is to develop the company, the unit and the employee.
This is one of the tasks in our workbook.
The training system for the staff.
In this section, I would like to say that, as a rule,
when talking to the managers about how to better create a training system in the company,
they often ask the main five questions.
First, where to start, what to do and how.
Second, how the training process is organized,
what functions are performed, which units are responsible for the training.
And third, how to evaluate the investment needed to create a training system.
Let's try to answer all five questions and start with the first one.
I will probably repeat myself a little bit here.
First, it is important to understand at what stage of development the organization is,
in what form and volume of training it needs.
Second, what type of training is preferred at this stage, external or internal.
What process will take place, what is the internal corporate business process for training.
And you need to measure the level of efficiency of both the programs themselves
and the systems that implement them.
In the next slide, or rather, in the four slides and in your workbook,
a certain method of express-diagnostics of the training system is proposed,
which you have now or which you are planning to build.
In our opinion, if you try to answer all the questions about this express-diagnostics honestly,
it will be easier for you to determine which system you are building,
which system exists and what is worth paying attention to.
I will comment on only a few questions that, as a rule, arise from our listeners.
Let's look at the first slide.
I think you can easily describe the field of TV activities of the company,
but the number of employees in the company is a very simple question.
It does not make it more difficult if all the information in the company matches.
What do I mean?
Very often, if we request a list of employees from the accounting department,
a list of employees from the personnel department and a list of employees from the secretary,
we get three different lists of employees.
What is the difference between these lists?
We have an accounting list.
These are people who receive a salary, work and receive a salary.
But there may be employees who are not employed,
but they may not receive a salary.
You can get a list of employees from the secretary,
but on the other hand, there may be people who have already resigned or moved somewhere,
and he may also be wrong.
We have already discussed the goals of the organization,
the goals of the system of training.
Try to answer the question,
is there a formalized requirement for positions?
Do you have a job description?
Do you have a portrait of competence?
This will help you to diagnose the gap
between the basic and desired skills of the specialist.
What are the causes of the problem?
Let's try to answer this question.
Why is there such a difference between the experience and the skills that the employees have and what we expect from them?
What is the frequency of the training?
How often do you train the employees?
How do you calculate the number of training days per year?
Let's say one employee is trained 7 days a week,
and the second employee is not trained at all.
The question is,
what criteria for calculating the number of training days per year on average
will you use to assess the results of the training?
The topic of the budget for training is also a separate issue.
Is the budget for training being formed?
The next part of the questions is about the training form
and the choice of coaches and providers.
It would be good to assess what methods are used,
what are the signs of choosing external providers or coaches,
how do you use the technical materials,
what training is being conducted, and what documents and forms are being regulated.
The fourth page of this diagnosis suggests that you assess the distribution of resources.
If we look at the percentage of training days per employee,
we see that the administrative and technical staff take up the most training days,
and the top management takes up the least.
This table is not an example,
it is just an example for reflection.
Therefore, when you analyze the number of training days,
compare them with the financial costs that you incurred.
The second question is,
from which blocks and by what logic should we build a training system?
Let's think about what tasks we should implement
and, accordingly, with which blocks we can divide our training system.
A person comes to work, we assess his or her knowledge of competencies,
what knowledge he or she lacks, we assess it according to the results of the training period,
and we develop it in the process of adaptation, and accordingly, a block of assessment of the staff arises.
Then he or she started working, we understand that he or she needs to improve his or her qualification,
and a block of increasing the qualification of the staff arises.
And such blocks as assessment, introduction to the position,
improvement of qualifications, and further improvement of qualifications and development of skills,
are included in the training system.
But since in order to train and develop the staff,
we need to assess each time at certain stages,
therefore, as a rule, the assessment and development block is included in one meaningful block,
adaptation training in the second, and improvement of qualifications in the third.
So, the task of introducing a person to the position,
which includes getting acquainted with the company, its mission, its history,
introducing a person to the position of a unit in cooperation with other employees and units,
forming basic knowledge, skills, and skills,
the task of adapting employees, and the training of the training system.
The task of increasing the qualification implies that we should assess the need for training,
develop individual development programs,
and form a portfolio of training programs for each employee,
implement this training through special skills courses,
for example, some basic skills, radio-electronic or software,
and the next task is to assess the staff and development,
which implies modeling of the portfolio of competencies,
assessing the level of existing competencies,
developing competencies by target groups, and, if necessary, changing the category of employees.
You can approach the training system and divide it into other blocks,
and then the training system will be more focused on the meaningful load in accordance with these blocks.
Of course, any training system will be focused on various groups of specialists,
but you can make it key,
that is, approach the training system based on professional groups.
Let's look at the next slide,
what emphasis can be made on the dependence of certain groups.
Of course, our specialists and professional workers should get the maximum practice
through the training of special mentors, coaches,
or with the help of some information technologies.
Such a group of specialists as young specialists is a new generation of our managers and managers.
Unfortunately, many young specialists did not get the Soviet good experience of production or bureaucracy in the past,
and they often do not understand about production engineering or basic approaches to management.
Therefore, our young specialists, especially managers, have to learn management skills.
Engineering and technology specialists are not the only ones who are interested in this field.
There are many other specialists,
but it's not easy to find the right trainer,
technical industry specialist, engineer, designer.
In fact, these are the most recognized professionals in the Waste Management sector of Russia.
So, it is very hard to find suitable trainees.
If these certain people are the specialists,
even if they are specialists, let's say, technologists or designers,
they often suffer from the fact that they do not own a car or some modern computer programs.
And then, of course, these specialists need to be trained in a modern technical program.
Linear managers are our middlemen.
These are managers, let's say, sales directors or marketing directors or our financial services.
It is known that in our companies there is often a local war.
Salespeople always conflict with marketers or manufacturers
and they always unite against the accounting.
Therefore, the programs aimed at this field of specialists
should be made so that salespeople understand the meaning of the work of marketers,
manufacturers should focus on the salespeople's performance, not on the warehouse.
But, of course, everyone was careful with the requirements of accounting,
which are set in the company.
The most difficult group of specialists is the managers,
because they require individual training,
and they need to be trained in a modern training system.
This is a small pyramid with the distribution of programs and groups of staff,
and some emphasis on how to better orient this training depending on a particular group.
The third question is how to build the training process.
If you have a program that allows you to describe the business process
in the standard of these description programs, then this is great.
If not, then it is highly recommended to describe the business process
in squares, crosses, circles, at least on your knees,
in order to understand which main blocks of such an organizational training process you implement.
Again, a slide, some comments to it, to this picture.
So, the training process is focused on the business goal,
and should help us answer the questions, what we want to achieve,
what operational results or financial consequences.
Then we conduct an analysis of the training requirements in order to understand why we train them,
in what direction, what we expect, what changes.
We determine what we teach, how we teach, through what forms and which groups of specialists we train.
Then there is a section on implementation of these knowledge or skills.
What knowledge and skills should our specialists apply at work,
and how we implement or control their implementation.
Here I would like to say that, of course, we must be ready for any consequences of implementation,
because it is not always positive.
And the last block in the training process is the assessment of the training.
Have we achieved the results that our goals were oriented to,
that is, those operational, financial or other results,
for which we started all this training.
The next question we should answer is how much it costs,
what will we do to create such a training system.
Here I would like to make a comment that our training budget will consist of two parts.
The first is the budget that you spent money on creating a training system,
and specialists, possibly on a material and technical base,
on programs, on teachers, that is, on the training system itself.
And the second is the money or resources that you will spend on staff
in order to train him, to get the knowledge and skills that you want them to have.
Therefore, it is customary to allocate the following types of training costs.
Let's see in the next slide what types of training costs are the main ones.
The first group is direct costs,
which relate to the payment of the work of teachers on the conduct of the classes,
and also the cost of multiplying the materials themselves.
Very often we do not put this cost in the budget, this is wrong.
You must necessarily lay down all the materials that you have to print, publish.
The accompanying costs are the rent of the equipment,
the cost of some consumables, the cost of the trip, accommodation, food,
and the teachers themselves, if your students went somewhere on a course from the region to Moscow,
or to a neighboring city, or if you brought the teachers to yourself.
And indirect costs, which are usually rarely taken into account, because they are simply forgotten.
In fact, think about it, when your employee is studying,
in addition to paying for his training, you also pay him a salary for the day when he is studying.
And there is also such a concept as lost income.
In addition to paying him a salary, he also did not bring income to the company.
Therefore, as a rule, indirect costs include salaries of employees during training,
and salaries of employees in the workplace.
How can we optimize the costs for training?
There are several basic approaches, several methods, I am sure you are familiar with them.
Nevertheless, let's look at the following slide,
the direction of saving costs for training,
the first approach is to reduce the number of our employees participating in the trip,
because they are usually the most expensive.
The second approach is to reduce the number of our employees participating in the trip,
And it doesn't matter how many participants there are,
we try to put as many people as possible on this seminar,
regardless of the fact that the number of participants is 10 people,
we have 40 people at the seminar,
and we try to optimize the costs for training.
Still, the increase in the number of participants in closed seminars can be expanded,
but we would like it to be within the acceptable limits.
I can say as a teacher that when I expect 10-15 people and get into the audience for 40,
not always my programs involve 40 people.
Naturally, we do not get the results that we could get in a more narrow format.
The next approach is very common in Russian companies,
when we choose teachers through a training company,
and then we start looking for individual approaches to the teacher himself
so as not to pay the training company, but to pay the teacher himself.
This is Russian practice, and it really saves costs for training.
I omit the ethical side of this issue.
The next approach that allows us to optimize costs is when we copy materials
or adapt training events by the forces of internal teachers or by the forces of internal copying.
For example, you invited a teacher and got permission to video his course,
and then this course is listened to by all new employees or new specialists who come.
They can already listen to the same course,
but in video.
It is possible that you invite a teacher to materials that you can later use
or copy in a wider or larger copy.
Another approach that you can use is to create your own methodical materials
that can be developed with the help of external teachers,
but with the participation of your employees and specialists.
Creating such internal training methods also saves a lot of costs for training.
There is a lot to talk about in terms of training systems,
and there is a lot to tell.
The format of interaction can be more extensive.
Nevertheless, I would like to emphasize once again
that the first training is primarily based on the creation of the training system itself,
that is, people who will be engaged in training,
the formation of a material and technical complex or a training base,
possibly a training hall, a class or equipment.
The creation of training programs is all that is included in the training system.
And the training procedures themselves are aimed at re-qualifying your employees.
Pay special attention to this.
The topic of corporate knowledge, knowledge management.
I think you have also faced this problem when you trained a person
or you had a unique specialist, he leaves and it is impossible to find a second one,
and you cannot pass on the knowledge, because he is either unique
or he did it in a special way.
The most common situation is when a sales manager leaves and takes away the client base with him,
and the client is often competing with other organizations for himself.
The way to maintain the methods of working with partners, with clients,
the interaction between them, very often leaves a person and we have lost the knowledge he had.
You know perfectly well that there are situations when a specialist has left
and deleted all the information from the computer,
or he took something important with him and your corporate knowledge is no longer unique
Therefore, many companies are concerned about how to accumulate the knowledge that existed in the company,
how to systematize them, how to archive them, how to pack them,
and most importantly, how to pass it on, how to develop the company in this way,
or how to get additional competitive advantage for the company,
while preserving and developing the corporate knowledge that arises in the company itself.
Recently, there is a new concept called Knowledge Management,
which is associated with the concept of continuous learning,
the learning organization, the corporate university, and so on.
The concept of the learning organization itself arose in Japan,
but, as always, it got its application or its meaning in the world of knowledge management.
The learning organization is usually distinguished by four basic models of knowledge creation.
Look at the slide, it is quite simple.
These four basic models suggest the following way of knowledge creation.
From informal to informal, that is, we have informal knowledge of one employee,
which he passes on to another directly, and this also results in informal knowledge.
The second approach is from formalized to formalized.
When you pass on knowledge from an employee or unit through instructions or documents,
or create something new using the existing formalized knowledge.
It can be documents, it can be instructions, it can be a description of technologies, or something else.
There is, of course, a form of passing knowledge from informal to formalized.
This is when a person realizes and formulates the basis of his hidden knowledge
and turns it into the knowledge of the whole team.
Here I really like such an example, almost anecdotally,
when a grandson asks his grandfather,
and the grandfather could not sleep all night because he could not remember where he put his beard.
So, the transfer from informal to formalized is when you do not remember how you put your beard,
but then you realize how to do it and describe where you need to put your beard before you go to bed.
And the next and last form is when you pass knowledge from formal to informal.
That is, employees, receiving formalized knowledge, expand it,
master it, actively use it, and perhaps they develop some other skills.
Let's say you have passed a technology or presented some kind of technology and work in the form of instructions,
and you perfectly understand that five employees use the instruction or technology
and can get different results using their individual approaches.
And this will be the use of formalized knowledge for informal.
It is possible that one of the employees will improve this technology
by using some additional skills or some other approach.
The topic of self-learning organizations has recently become a fairly fashionable topic,
and they write a lot about it.
If you are very interested in this topic,
you can find a lot of information about it both within our business school and outside it.
The next section is dedicated to assessing the effectiveness of learning.
How to find out if the learning was effective, if it brought results?
This is probably what all the leaders are concerned about when conducting training.
It seems that our employees went to training, how to find out if it was effective.
But this is not a new issue, we will not invent a bicycle.
A famous specialist of the last century, Donald Kirkpatrick,
at the time, proposed a conceptual approach to assessing learning programs.
This approach has become a classic, almost indecent,
four-level model of assessment of learning.
Let's look at the slide.
First, you need to understand what contribution the training department makes
to the achievement of the goal of the organization.
The assessment should show you, as a manager,
how to help the leader to make decisions.
You should continue to stop a program or a training procedure
and get information on how to improve this program in the future.
So, the next slide shows four levels
on which you can make an assessment of the effectiveness of learning.
The first level is the reaction of participants.
Kirkpatrick calls it the assessment of customer satisfaction,
taking into account the participants' experience.
As a rule, we immediately conduct a survey,
whether the students liked the material, whether the teacher liked it or not.
All seminars end with a questionnaire.
The question is whether the participants liked the material.
If the teacher does not bother the audience,
or tells jokes all day long,
the participants will like it.
The second level is the training.
The assessment of the knowledge acquired.
What knowledge has been acquired and whether it is used by a person at work.
Of course, it is important to understand whether the person has studied well,
whether he spent money on it, whether he passed a course of study,
but it is important to understand what percentage of knowledge
is used by the person.
The third level is the assessment of behavior change.
This is especially true if the learning is aimed at changing behavioral reactions.
This is often the learning of sales skills,
leadership, time management, holding meetings, and so on.
The participants have passed the training,
they have done well in training or seminars,
and in a week they are acting as they did a month ago.
It is important to understand how they use the new techniques
in their work after the seminar or training.
The fourth level is the assessment of the financial or operational results of the training.
This is one of the most famous approaches.
Let's train our sales specialists,
and expect that after we have trained them,
sales should increase 2, 3, 4, 25 times.
Of course, we would like to increase the sales,
but training does not always affect the sales.
You can hold advertising and marketing promotions,
maybe you had promotions related to discounts, bonuses,
maybe the season factor influenced.
This is the fourth level of the Kirkpatrick model,
and it can also be assessed.
The workbook suggests you to think about
how to assess the effectiveness of the training
in accordance with each level of this model.
We have already discussed the reaction of participants through surveys.
How do we check whether our listeners know or not
whether they have or do not have these skills,
whether they apply them or not,
and whether the training has influenced the financial or operational results.
We have already discussed the classical model
of the Kirkpatrick assessment of the effectiveness of training.
It is interesting to know whether this model is used in practice.
We have already discussed the classical model
of the Kirkpatrick assessment of the effectiveness of training.
But it is interesting to know
whether there are other approaches to assessing the effectiveness of training.
Of course, there are.
We said that the new approach to the staff
is based on the fact that we see the staff
as the financial directors and owners.
Let's see what our internal investors,
financial directors and owners know about the results.
How can we assess the results of the financial or return on investment
in the staff according to the results of the training or development program.
You can see that the internal investor
can guess the results of the development program.
Top managers sincerely believe
that the training and development of the staff is great,
but they cannot always prove that the training and development program
is effective.
In general, if we talk about the approach
to the key indicators of efficiency,
it is difficult to develop a universal indicator of efficiency
for the training and development program,
but it is possible to develop a universal indicator of efficiency
for the training and development program.
There are several procedures used to assess the effectiveness of training and development.
The following are the methods used in the West.
The slide shows the main methods used.
Since it is not always possible to determine the direct effect of the training,
especially on the operational results,
then experts assess how much the training has influenced
the increase in sales volume or increase in turnover or increase in profit.
The second main method is the Jacob Phillips method,
which is used to assess the return on investment.
This method is used,
but it has become very similar to another method,
which is the assessment of the return on investment.
There is also a benchmarking method.
The word bench is a bench,
and the approach to benchmarking is related to the fact
that we assess ourselves with our neighbors sitting on the same bench.
When we study the best practices,
or the best experience,
we can see that the value of human resources is assessed as the value of any resource.
There is a purchase value, a purchase value,
a recovery value and a balance value.
But as a rule, they are assessed within the framework of the assessment of non-material assets of the company,
and a number of approaches are used.
How is it done in Russia?
What training indicators are usually used by Russian companies?
Let's look at the table on the next slide.
We have three groups of criteria by which we can assess the effectiveness of training.
The first group is the group of quantitative indicators,
which is the group of indicators that we can assess the number of employees we have trained,
or the number of hours we have spent training one employee.
There are financial indicators,
which are the income, the wage fund,
or the expenses for each training course or for one participant.
When we assess the quality of the training,
we can do it through the certification assessment,
the average personnel assessment index,
or through the quantitative indicators of the trained employees to the total number of employees in the company,
or in each category of personnel.
Therefore, each assessment of effectiveness in the field of training and development
is a kind of agreement on standards, indicators, and their constant improvement.
Returning to the topic of the assessment of the investment in the personnel,
can the ROE indicator be applied to training programs?
In general, if we talk about an indicator such as ROE,
then the return on investment in personnel can be calculated.
But can this indicator be used for training programs?
It can be used in any case,
if the programs are long enough,
for example, if the programs run throughout the year.
The ROE indicator has its advantages and disadvantages.
It allows to give a certain number of results,
to assess the financial consequences.
But the difficulty of using this indicator is that there should be a certain duration of the program
so that this indicator can be calculated.
The ROE formula is very simple.
It is the increase in income minus the expense,
divided by the expense and multiplied by 100%.
In your workbook there will be a task for calculating the ROE.
I think you can easily handle it.
I would like to make a short comment on the benchmarking methodology,
when we compare ourselves with the best examples of domestic or foreign practice.
The slide shows the indicators in Russian and foreign companies.
For example, the percentage of the budget spent on training in Russian companies
is 6-20%, and in Western companies it is 35-50%.
If we look at the spending on training
in relation to the ROE,
I ask our listeners what percentage,
what budget for training and the ROE budget,
in the best case it is 1-2%,
and in foreign companies it is 4%.
For example, in the company Mary Kay it is 18%.
Russian companies spend very little on training,
although the spending on training has increased.
The ROE is 400-600 dollars per year per employee.
The spending on training in Western companies has increased to 2,000 dollars per year per employee.
The number of days spent on training is used as an indicator.
In Russian companies, the best case is a week,
which we can deduct from the production cycle.
In Western companies, many people train their staff
for almost three months,
that is, 72-75 days.
The number of employees with individual development plans
in Western companies is almost 23%.
According to our statistics, there are no such employees yet,
but this is due to the fact that individual development plans are being created.
The number of employees who are trained with coaching is one of the training technologies.
Unfortunately, I have not yet met such a mass circulation of coaches in Russia.
As a rule, it is top-level, owners use it,
and not as often as they would like.
The ROE is very widespread,
almost 81% of employees are trained in this way.
If we want to compare such an indicator as the ROE with others,
I can say that the most successful companies
show a fairly high percentage of return on investment,
that is, ROE from 1.3 to 1.6.
This is a serious investment, a serious return on investment,
but it must be able to calculate and evaluate.
I would also like to make a small comment
on how the participants themselves assess the effectiveness of training.
We have interested parties who are involved in this process.
Who are these interested parties?
Of course, the SMED manager himself, the financial director, the owner,
and perhaps the top is the one who signs our training budgets.
How does he assess the results of training?
On the other hand, he has his own opinion
on how the knowledge or skills of employees have changed.
The next participant in the process is the customer,
as a rule, our director or head of the department.
He forms his opinion on the effectiveness of training
and the performance of his employees.
One of the main participants in the process is the listener himself,
the specialist we train.
His subjective opinion is assessed.
Did he like the topic?
The teacher is also an interested party.
If before we were afraid of teachers and their assessments,
now teachers have stopped making assessments.
I would like to remind you that you should use the opportunity
to evaluate the listener, evaluate their work in the audience,
their knowledge.
Unfortunately, many teachers and coaches have ceased to use this tool.
We evaluate many listeners, especially if it is a long-term program.
We can see how the listener behaved during the entire training program.
Very often we use a scoring system in long-term programs.
Despite the fact that this is not a formal approach,
we do not put it as a stimulating factor.
The one who studied the best will receive a prize.
However, comparing yourself with other participants in the process
often stimulates our listeners.
The assessment of effectiveness of the training program
is based on the subjective opinion of all participants.
It is very easy to do.
You can do it by a survey or by an interview with participants.
This will help you get additional impressions
and to get the result you expect from the training and development of employees.
We have discussed the topic of training and development of staff
in the main sections.
We have discussed how to assess the need for training,
what methods and forms of training can be used,
how to invest in the training and development of employees,
how to build the process,
and what modern methods and approaches exist in this area.
The examples I gave and the tools I gave you
were used in a number of Russian companies,
and they exist and work.
I would be very pleased if you acquire new ideas
and apply them in your companies.
These methods are not regulated, certified or licensed.
If you can implement something in practice,
it will be great.
We wish you success in your new endeavors.